IAAS, PAAS def

Elastic Container Service


Features of kubernates
	Self Healing	

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-dockerfile-syntax/

Default Service type is ClusterIP

12 Factor App
https://www.srijan.net/resources/blog/12-factor-apps-and-their-benefits-for-cloud-native-applications


Teams should hold a sprint retrospective after a sprint review and before the planning meeting for the next sprint.


S3(Simple Storage Services) is a object storage

S3 is always encypted

Docker File  is a text document that contains all the commands a user could call on the command line to assemble an image

Ec2 = Elastic Compute Cloud

EKS

Instead of organizing files in a directory hierarchy, object storage systems store files in a flat organization of containers 
(called "buckets" in Amazon S3) and use unique IDs (called "keys" in S3) to retrieve them.

Docker uses a technology called namespaces to provide the isolated workspace called the container.

When you create a new container, you add a new writable layer on top of the underlying layers. 
This layer is often called the “container layer”. All changes made to the running container, such as writing new files,
 modifying existing files, and deleting files, are written to this thin writable container layer.

-------------------------------------
Different Types of Instances
1) General Purpose
2) Memory Optimized 
3) Stogage Optimized




------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kubernates

Kubeadm -> Intinalizes the Cluster, etcd, Scheduler, Control Plane
KubeCTL -> Command Line Interface
Kubelet -> It is an Agent which is needed


In EKS kubeadm no required it will be controlled by EKS, No need to install Kublet as well
We need Kubectl in EKS 


----------------------------------------------------
Types of deployment strategies
https://spot.io/resources/kubernetes-autoscaling/5-kubernetes-deployment-strategies-roll-out-like-the-pros/

	1) Rolling deployment:
		Replaces pods running the old version of the application with the new version, one by one, without downtime to the cluster.
	2) Recreate
	 	Terminates all the pods and replaces them with the new version.
	3) Ramped slow rollout
		Rolls out replicas of the new version, while in parallel, shutting down old replicas. 
	4) Best-effort controlled rollout
		Specifies a “max unavailable” parameter which indicates what percentage of existing pods can be unavailable during 
		the upgrade, enabling the rollout to happen much more quickly.
	5) Canary deployment
		Uses a progressive delivery approach, with one version of the application serving most users, and another, newer 
		version serving a small pool of test users. The test deployment is rolled out to more users if it is successful.

	
Types of Load Balancer :
https://www.armosec.io/glossary/kubernetes-load-balancer/

Kubernetes primarily has two types of load balancers:

●     Internal Load Balancers: 
	These are responsible for routing requests between containers of the same Virtual Private Cloud. 
	They also perform in-cluster load balancing and service discovery.

●     External Load Balancers: 
	These are responsible for assigning resources to incoming external HTTP Requests. 
	Based on the availability, the set of services provided by pods and containers, the HTTP Requests are routed to specific clusters, 
	identified by their IP addresses, and specific nodes, identified by a port number. 



NATS
ID
Database
Hybrid Mode




	









